Recommend the Visual Studio SPA project templates (#30333)
dotnet/AspNetCore.Docs: aspnetcore/includes/spa-templates-new-vs-old.md

---
author: tdykstra
ms.author: tdykstra
ms.date: 09/12/2023
ms.topic: include
---

> ## Newer vs. older SPA templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## ASP.NET Core SPA templates
```

> The SPA templates that use the special project type for JavaScript and TypeScript are available in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.7 or later with the **ASP.NET and web development** workload installed. They're available only in Visual Studio, not by using the `dotnet new` command of the .NET CLI.

Reviewer: The new SPA templates that include an ASP.NET Core backend will ship their first stable release with 17.8. Also, let's not draw unnecessary attention to the lack of CLI support. We think the existing SPA templates saw very little usage from the CLI. If it turns out users want CLI support for project creation, we'll consider adding it.

 ```suggestion
The SPA templates that use the special project type for JavaScript and TypeScript are available in Visual Studio 2022 version 17.8 or later with the **ASP.NET and web development** workload installed.
```

> There are older SPA templates that don't use the special project type for JavaScript and TypeScript. The newer Visual Studio templates offer the following benefits compared to the older templates:

Reviewer: Can we reword this part to not be a comparison? In the long run the intention is that the new templates fully replace the old ones. Can we make the language here timeless?

```suggestion
The Visual Studio templates for building ASP.NET Core apps with a JavaScript or TypeScript frontend offer the following benefits:
```

* Clean project separation for the frontend and backend.
* Stay up-to-date with the latest frontend framework versions.
* Integrate with the latest frontend framework command-line tooling, such as [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/).
* Templates for both JavaScript & TypeScript (only TypeScript for Angular).
* Rich JavaScript and TypeScript code editing experience.
* Integrate JavaScript build tools with the .NET build.
* npm dependency management UI.
* Compatible with Visual Studio Code debugging and launch configuration.
* Run frontend unit tests in [Test Explorer](/visualstudio/test/run-unit-tests-with-test-explorer) using JavaScript test frameworks.

> ## How to get the old templates
> 
> Install the [.NET 6 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/6.0) or [.NET 7 SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet/7.0) to make the old SPA project templates available via the `dotnet new angular` or `dotnet new react` commands. For documentation on these older templates, see the ASP.NET Core 7.0 version of the [SPA overview](xref:spa/angular?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=netcore-cli) and the [Angular](xref:spa/angular?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=netcore-cli) and [React](xref:spa/react?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=netcore-cli) articles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Legacy ASP.NET Core SPA templates

Earlier versions of the .NET SDK included what are now legacy templates for building SPA apps with ASP.NET Core. For documentation on these older templates, see the ASP.NET Core 7.0 version of the [SPA overview](xref:spa/angular?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=netcore-cli) and the [Angular](xref:spa/angular?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=netcore-cli) and [React](xref:spa/react?view=aspnetcore-7.0&preserve-view=true&tabs=netcore-cli) articles.
```
